README.adoc, before:

= build.edn
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:toclevels: 2

// Need some preamble to get TOC:
{empty}

Make your Clojure library build process easy.

NOTE: This project is alpha version. Breaking changes may happen

image:https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/workflows/test/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for test workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/actions?query=workflow%3Atest"]
image:https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/workflows/lint/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for lint workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/actions?query=workflow%3Alint"]
image:https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/workflows/dependencies/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for dependencies workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/actions?query=workflow%3Adependencies"]

== Usage

=== Getting started

build.edn make you buildable your libraries only preparing `build.edn` file for the simple usage.

* build.edn
** {blank}
+
[source,clojure]
----
{:lib com.github.YOUR-ACCOUNT/AWESOME-LIB
 :version "0.1.{{git/commit-count}}"}
----

* deps.edn
** {blank}
+
[source,clojure]
----
{:aliases
 {:build {:deps {com.github.liquidz/build.edn {:git/tag "0.3.90" :git/sha "e3a3e31"}}
          :ns-default build-edn.main}}}
----

* use by clojure cli
** {blank}
+
[source,bash]
----
# Generate JAR file
$ clojure -T:build jar

# Install lib to your local maven repo
$ clojure -T:build install

# Deploy to clojars.org
# Some kind of credentials are required
$ clojure -T:build deploy
----
** See `clojure -T:build help` for other functionarities.

=== Manual usage

`build-edn.main` namespace is just a wrapper for `build-edn.core`.
So if you want to tune the build process a bit more, you can use `build-edn.core` name directly.

* deps.edn
** {blank}
+
[source,clojure]
----
{:aliases
 {:build {:deps {com.github.liquidz/build.edn {:git/tag "0.3.90" :git/sha "e3a3e31"}}
          :ns-default build}}}
----
* build.clj
** {blank}
+
[source,clojure]
----
(ns build
  (:require
   [build-edn.core :as build-edn]))

(def ^:private config
  {:lib 'com.github.YOUR-ACCOUNT/AWESOME-LIB
   :version "0.1.{{git/commit-count}}"})

(defn deploy
  [_]
  ;; Deploy with past name for compatibility.
  (build-edn/deploy (assoc config :lib 'AWESOME-LIB/AWESOME-LIB))
  (build-edn/deploy config))
----


== build.edn file format

[cols="1,1,1,1,6a"]
|===
| name | type | required? | default | description

| lib
| `qualified-symbol?`
| Yes
|
|

| version
| `string?`
| Yes
|
|

| source-dir
| `string?`
|
| Your paths in deps.edn
|

| class-dir
| `string?`
|
| "target/classes"
|

| jar-file
| `string?`
|
| "target/{{lib}}.jar"
|

| uber-file
| `string?`
|
| "target/{{lib}}-standalone.jar"
| Required only for `uberjar`

| main
| `symbol?`
|
|
| Required only for `uberjar`

| scm
| `map?`
|
|
| You can generate pom.xml with https://maven.apache.org/scm/maven-scm-plugin/usage.html[scm] section. +
If you don't specify this key, build.edn will collect it from `.git/config` automatically. +
See link:./doc/format/scm.adoc[doc/format/scm.adoc] for more details.

| documents
| `sequential?`
|
|
| Required only for `update-documents`. +
See link:./doc/format/documents.adoc[doc/format/documents.adoc] for more details.

| deploy-repository
| `map?`
|
|
| Required only for `deploy`. +
See link:./doc/format/deploy-repository.adoc[doc/format/deploy-repository.adoc] for more details.


| github-actions?
| `boolean?`
|
| false
| See link:./doc/github-actions.adoc[doc/github-actions.adoc] for more details.

|===


=== Available variables

See link:./doc/format/variables.adoc[doc/format/variables.adoc].

=== Lint your build.edn

build.edn provides `build-edn.core/lint` and `build-edn.main/lint` function.

When you use `:ns-default build-edn.main` setting, you can lint your `build.edn` file with the following command.

[source,bash]
----
clojure -T:build lint
----

== Deploy repositories / credentials

See link:./doc/deploy.adoc[doc/deploy.adoc] for more details.

== GitHub Actions

If you'd like to integrate build.edn with GitHub Actions,
see link:./doc/github-actions.adoc[doc/github-actions.adoc].

== Projects using build.edn

Of course, build.edn itself is using build.edn for releasing.

* https://github.com/liquidz/antq[liquidz/antq]
* https://github.com/liquidz/merr[liquidz/merr]
* https://github.com/liquidz/testdoc[liquidz/testdoc]
* https://github.com/liquidz/rewrite-indented[liquidz/rewrite-indented]

== License

Copyright © 2022 https://twitter.com/uochan[Masashi Iizuka]

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the Eclipse
Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version, with the GNU Classpath Exception which is available
at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

Commit message:

docs: Add document for description

README.adoc, after:

= build.edn
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:toclevels: 2

// Need some preamble to get TOC:
{empty}

Make your Clojure library build process easy.

NOTE: This project is alpha version. Breaking changes may happen

image:https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/workflows/test/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for test workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/actions?query=workflow%3Atest"]
image:https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/workflows/lint/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for lint workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/actions?query=workflow%3Alint"]
image:https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/workflows/dependencies/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for dependencies workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/build.edn/actions?query=workflow%3Adependencies"]

== Usage

=== Getting started

build.edn make you buildable your libraries only preparing `build.edn` file for the simple usage.

* build.edn
** {blank}
+
[source,clojure]
----
{:lib com.github.YOUR-ACCOUNT/AWESOME-LIB
 :version "0.1.{{git/commit-count}}"}
----

* deps.edn
** {blank}
+
[source,clojure]
----
{:aliases
 {:build {:deps {com.github.liquidz/build.edn {:git/tag "0.3.90" :git/sha "e3a3e31"}}
          :ns-default build-edn.main}}}
----

* use by clojure cli
** {blank}
+
[source,bash]
----
# Generate JAR file
$ clojure -T:build jar

# Install lib to your local maven repo
$ clojure -T:build install

# Deploy to clojars.org
# Some kind of credentials are required
$ clojure -T:build deploy
----
** See `clojure -T:build help` for other functionarities.

=== Manual usage

`build-edn.main` namespace is just a wrapper for `build-edn.core`.
So if you want to tune the build process a bit more, you can use `build-edn.core` name directly.

* deps.edn
** {blank}
+
[source,clojure]
----
{:aliases
 {:build {:deps {com.github.liquidz/build.edn {:git/tag "0.3.90" :git/sha "e3a3e31"}}
          :ns-default build}}}
----
* build.clj
** {blank}
+
[source,clojure]
----
(ns build
  (:require
   [build-edn.core :as build-edn]))

(def ^:private config
  {:lib 'com.github.YOUR-ACCOUNT/AWESOME-LIB
   :version "0.1.{{git/commit-count}}"})

(defn deploy
  [_]
  ;; Deploy with past name for compatibility.
  (build-edn/deploy (assoc config :lib 'AWESOME-LIB/AWESOME-LIB))
  (build-edn/deploy config))
----


== build.edn file format

[cols="1,1,1,1,6a"]
|===
| name | type | required? | default | description

| lib
| `qualified-symbol?`
| Yes
|
|

| version
| `string?`
| Yes
|
|

| description
| `string?`
|
|
| You can add `description` tag to pom.xml.

| source-dir
| `string?`
|
| Your paths in deps.edn
|

| class-dir
| `string?`
|
| "target/classes"
|

| jar-file
| `string?`
|
| "target/{{lib}}.jar"
|

| uber-file
| `string?`
|
| "target/{{lib}}-standalone.jar"
| Required only for `uberjar`

| main
| `symbol?`
|
|
| Required only for `uberjar`

| scm
| `map?`
|
|
| You can generate pom.xml with https://maven.apache.org/scm/maven-scm-plugin/usage.html[scm] section. +
If you don't specify this key, build.edn will collect it from `.git/config` automatically. +
See link:./doc/format/scm.adoc[doc/format/scm.adoc] for more details.

| documents
| `sequential?`
|
|
| Required only for `update-documents`. +
See link:./doc/format/documents.adoc[doc/format/documents.adoc] for more details.

| deploy-repository
| `map?`
|
|
| Required only for `deploy`. +
See link:./doc/format/deploy-repository.adoc[doc/format/deploy-repository.adoc] for more details.


| github-actions?
| `boolean?`
|
| false
| See link:./doc/github-actions.adoc[doc/github-actions.adoc] for more details.

|===


=== Available variables

See link:./doc/format/variables.adoc[doc/format/variables.adoc].

=== Lint your build.edn

build.edn provides `build-edn.core/lint` and `build-edn.main/lint` function.

When you use `:ns-default build-edn.main` setting, you can lint your `build.edn` file with the following command.

[source,bash]
----
clojure -T:build lint
----

== Deploy repositories / credentials

See link:./doc/deploy.adoc[doc/deploy.adoc] for more details.

== GitHub Actions

If you'd like to integrate build.edn with GitHub Actions,
see link:./doc/github-actions.adoc[doc/github-actions.adoc].

== Projects using build.edn

Of course, build.edn itself is using build.edn for releasing.

* https://github.com/liquidz/antq[liquidz/antq]
* https://github.com/liquidz/merr[liquidz/merr]
* https://github.com/liquidz/testdoc[liquidz/testdoc]
* https://github.com/liquidz/rewrite-indented[liquidz/rewrite-indented]

== License

Copyright © 2022 https://twitter.com/uochan[Masashi Iizuka]

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the Eclipse
Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version, with the GNU Classpath Exception which is available
at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.
